\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename octopress.info
@settitle Octopress.el Manual 1.0
@c %**end of header

@copying
This manual is for Octopress.el version 1.0.

Copyright @copyright{} 2015 Aaron Bieber

@quotation
All rights reserved. This manual must accompany the source code of the
Octopress.el package.
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Emacs
@direntry
* Octopress.el: (octopress.el). Blogging with Octopress from Emacs.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title Octopress.el Manual
@author Aaron Bieber

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Octopress Manual

This manual is for octopress.el, version 1.0.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* Installing::
* Using Octopress::
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

Octopress.el is a (more) humane interface for using the Octopress
blogging system within Emacs.

Octopress.el provides interactive commands for creating and publishing
drafts, posts, and pages; can start and stop the local server for
previewing your site; and can even deploy your site right from within
Emacs.

Because the entire command line interface was overhauled in 3.0,
Octopress.el will only work with Octopress 3.0 or higher. There are no
plans to support prior versions of Octopress.

For more information on using Octopress.el, @ref{Using Octopress}.

@node Installing
@chapter Installing

The recommended way to install Octopress.el is from the MELPA package
repository. If you are reading this, the chances are good that you've
already installed it, but if you haven't, the normal guidelines apply:

To install Octopress.el from its Github repository, clone it into a
location of your choice (usually within your @code{~/.emacs.d}) and
add that location to your @code{load-path}.

@section Installing from MELPA

Follow these steps to install Octopress.el from the MELPA repository.

@lisp
(require 'package)
(add-to-list 'package-archives
	     '("melpa" . "http://melpa.org/packages/") t)
@end lisp

@noindent
Then refresh your packages list:

@example
M-x package-refresh-contents RET
@end example

@noindent
And finally, install Octopress.el:

@example
M-x package-install RET octopress RET
@end example

@node Using Octopress
@chapter Using Octopress

Octopress.el provides a central ``dashboard'', called the status
buffer, from which you can manage your posts and drafts, start and
stop the server, and so on.

@section Displaying the status buffer

To open the status buffer, simply run @code{octopress-status}. If you
are currently editing a buffer within your Octopress blog site,
Octopress.el will assume you wish to manage that site and open
immediately. If you are not editing such a buffer (or your @code{cwd}
is not within an Octopress site), you will be prompted to locate the
root of your Octopress site.

You may wish to map a key to Octopress.el. If that is the case, it is
recommended that such a mapping call @code{octopress-status}.

The status screen consists of several headings:

@itemize

@item
Blog root

@item
Server

@item
Drafts

@item
Posts

@end itemize

You can move the ``focus'' between the items on this screen by
pressing @code{n} or @code{p} (``next'' and ``previous'',
respectively).

The ``Drafts'' and ``Posts'' sections will list the draft and post
files present within your site. By default, the ``Drafts'' section is
expanded and the ``Posts'' section is collapsed. You can toggle the
expansion of a section by pressing @code{TAB} while focused on it.

You can also move quickly to the next or previous section heading
(which you might do to jump from a line containing a draft or post to
its section heading) by pressing @code{C-n} or @code{C-p} (``next
section'' and ``previous section'', respectively).

@section Running commands

Of course, Octopress.el would be pretty useless if all it did was show
you lists of files!

To see all of the commands available, press @code{?} within the status
buffer. A split window will open displaying the various keys and what
they do (a la Magit). Some keys must be pressed while the focus is on
a certain type of item, such as ``publish'' and ``unpublish,'' while
others can be invoked from anywhere, such as ``server'' and
``deploy.''

There are three commands that require a little more explanation:
``create,'' ``build,'' and ``server'' are interactive commands, which
will allow you to configure exactly what they do.

When you invoke one of those three commands, the minibuffer will
display a ``toggles'' line, allowing you to select the options for the
command. For example, pressing @code{s} to invoke the ``server''
command displays the following toggles line:

@example
([d]rafts [f]uture [u]npublished) [s] Server, [k] Kill, [q] Abort
@end example

Pressing the @code{d}, @code{f}, or @code{u} keys will toggle the
state of those flags, each of which represents a class of post that
should be served by the server when it starts. Toggles that appear in
red are disabled, and the others are enabled.

To maintain compatibility with other themes, the default toggle colors
use the @code{font-lock-warning-face} for disabled toggles and the
@code{font-lock-string-face} for enabled toggles. The actual faces
used are customizable through @code{M-x customize-group RET octopress
RET}.

Finally, pressing one of @code{s}, @code{k}, or @code{q} will dismiss
the minibuffer, performing the operation described.

The same toggles are available for the ``build'' command, and the
``create'' command will ask you what you want to create, but has no
toggles.

@section Working with drafts and posts

Quite often, you will start a draft or two and work on them for a
while before you are ready to publish them. When that time comes,
Octopress.el is there to help you.

Less often, you may want to unpublish a post, returning it to draft
status. Octopress gives you a couple of simple commands to do this,
but running that command behind Emacs' back creates a few problems.

First, when you publish or unpublish a piece, the file is moved and
renamed. If you are currently editing that file, it will disappear and
Emacs will be confused, forcing you to kill the buffer and open the
file at its new location.

Fortunately, Octopress.el takes care of that for you.

Simply highlight the draft or post that you wish to publish or
unpublish and press @code{P}. If you are publishing a draft, the draft
will have its publish date added to the Jekyll front matter, the file
will be renamed, and it will be moved to your posts directory. Any
windows displaying the draft will be swapped to display the
post. Finally, buffers visiting the draft file are killed.

If you wish to unpublish a post, you will be prompted to confirm that
you really wish to do so, and then the opposite operation occurs.
